# Terraform Deployment

This directory contains terraform-driven deployments for PanelApp.

### Prerequisites

1. Create AWS S3 bucket and DynamoDB table for terraform remote state and locking. Refer `backend.conf.sample` for sample backend config.
    - Enable `Versioning` for S3 bucket
    - Use `LockID` as Primary key, String type for DynamoDB table
    - Then, initialize terraform with `-backend-config` flag:
    ```
    cp backend.conf.sample backend.conf
    terraform init -backend-config="backend.conf"
    ```
    
2. Create the following environment specific secret parameters in AWS Parameter Store. If you are planning for more than one environment, replicate more of these parameters with respective environment shorthand variables: `dev`, `staging`, `prod`
    ```
    /panelapp/dev/database/db_name              String
    /panelapp/dev/database/master_password      SecureString
    /panelapp/dev/database/master_username      String
    /panelapp/dev/django/secret_key             SecureString
    /panelapp/dev/email/host                    String
    /panelapp/dev/email/user                    SecureString
    /panelapp/dev/email/password                SecureString
    ```

3. If option `use_cognito` is `true` then it also has to define the following additional parameters. Follow [Google as social sign-in IdP]((https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-user-pools-configuring-federation-with-social-idp.html)) for how to get OAuth2 Client ID and Secret values.
    ```
    /panelapp/dev/cognito/google/oauth_client_id        SecureString
    /panelapp/dev/cognito/google/oauth_client_secret    SecureString
    ```

4. Create AWS Route53 Hosted Zones for `app_domain_name` to be used in deployment. 

5. If option `create_cert` is `false` then it also has to create and configure AWS ACM certificate for `app_domain_name`. See [SSL Certificate](#ssl-certificate) section. Managing this manually is desirable due to one or any of the following reasons: 
    - [ACM has limit on certificate request](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/acm-limits.html)
    - You may wish to import SSL certificate from 3rd party provider into ACM, and therefore, manage and update SSL cert manually

6. Terraform scripts are configured to use default values. To modify these variables, copy `terraform.tfvars.sample` to `terraform.tfvars` and configure there.

### SMTP Email

- This can be any SMTP Email provider, e.g. Sendgrid, Mailgun, etc. Tested with Amazon SES.
- Example SMTP Email setting:
    - Goto Amazon SES Console
    - Create My SMTP Credentials
    - Setup parameter store like:
    ```
    /panelapp/dev/email/host        email-smtp.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
    /panelapp/dev/email/user        (generated by AWS)
    /panelapp/dev/email/password    (generated by AWS)
    ```

### Domain Name

- A designated domain name or sub-domain name should be created.
- Then, prepare this designated domain name to be hosted at AWS Route53 Public Hosted Zone.
- Example
    - Goto [Route53 Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/route53/home)
    - Hosted zones > Create Hosted Zone > Type: `Public Hosted Zone` > Domain Name: `panelapp.example.com`
- Terraform stack will then auto populate any necessary DNS records (A, CNAME).

### SSL Certificate

- If option `create_cert` is `false` (i.e. not managed by terraform) then prepare and create SSL certificate in ACM.
- Example
    - Goto [ACM Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home)
    - Provision certificates > Get started > Request a public certificate > Add domain names > DNS validation
    - ___Create record in Route53___ (blue button) or follow up setting up CNAME record in [Route53 for DNS validation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/gs-acm-validate-dns.html)


### Running Stacks

- Stacks directory contain different kind of deployable PanelApp stacks.
- Each stack can be isolated by deployment environment using terraform workspace. Terraform default workspace map to `dev`. And you can additionally use environments: `staging` and `prod`.
- To create minimal PanelApp stack that run on AWS with minimal resources possible
    ```
    cd terraform/stacks/aws_mini
    terraform init -backend-config="backend.conf"
    terraform plan
    terraform apply
    terraform show
    ```
- And, perform `terraform destroy` to destroy the stack created
